Pontoon docs: update translate.md (#213)
mozilla-l10n/localizer-documentation: src/tools/pontoon/translate.md

When the user is in *Suggestion Mode* — [manually selected](#manually-switch-to-suggestion-mode), or because the user doesn’t have permissions to submit translations directly — a blue `SUGGEST` button will be displayed in the lower-right side of the editing space.

![Blue button for suggestions](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/suggest_button.png "Editing space in Pontoon with the blue SUGGEST button")

To suggest a translation, the user can input the text in the editor and click `SUGGEST`. The suggestion will then be displayed below the editing space and in the sidebar where, in the case of multiple suggestions, only the most recent one will be displayed.

Note that a suggestion exists only in the Pontoon database, and it’s not added to the [translation memory](glossary.md#translation-memory). For projects using [version control systems](glossary.md#version-control-system), the translation is not stored in localized files outside of Pontoon.

When the user is in *Translation Mode*, a green `SAVE` button will be displayed instead of `SUBMIT`. When saving a translation:
* The translation will be displayed directly below the editing space and in the sidebar.

> * The translation will be stored in the version control system (where applicable).

Author: DB-projects don't use VCS, that's not applicable for them.

> * The translation will be stored in the version control system (where applicable).

Author: Note that this form is used in a few places (on purpose), because explaining it each time would be too much, and omitting it would be imprecise.

![Make suggestions enabled](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/activate_suggest.png "Setting menu in the editing space, with the Make Suggestions menu enabled")

To switch back to *Translation Mode*, click the settings icon again and turn off `Make Suggestions`.

## Reviewing strings

To review a suggestion or pretranslation, [search](search_filters.md) for unreviewed or pretranslated strings in the sidebar.

If the current translation is acceptable, either click on the `APPROVE` button in the lower-right side of the editing space, or click on the approve icon to the right of the text. This will transform the suggestion or pretranslation into an approved translation. In case of suggestions, the approved translation will also be stored in version control system (where applicable).

![Approve button](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/approve_button.png "Editing space in Pontoon with the green APPROVE button")

> If the current translation is **not** acceptable, it can be rejected by clicking the reject icon to the right of the suggestion. After rejecting a suggestion or pretranslation, it’s also possible to delete it completely by clicking the trashcan icon. In case of pretranslations, the rejected text will be also removed from version control systems (where applicable).

Author: Never knew there was a [difference](https://blog.harwardcommunications.com/2013/12/04/how-to-use-in-case/) 😱

# How to translate

## Translating strings

Four actions can be performed on strings: submit a suggestion, review a suggestion/pretranslation, delete a rejected suggestion/pretranslation, and submit a translation directly. Availability of these actions depends on the user’s [role](users.md#user-roles).

This document is a summary to demonstrate the different translation modes available in Pontoon. This documentation includes specific pages for learning how to use Pontoon’s [interface](ui.md) and [translation resources](resources.md).

### Submit a suggestion

When the user is in *Suggest Mode*, or doesn’t have permissions to submit translations directly, a blue `SUGGEST` button will be displayed in the lower-right side of the editing space.

![Blue button for suggestions](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/suggest_button.png "Editing space in Pontoon with the blue SUGGEST button")

To suggest a translation, the user can input the translation in the editing space and click `SUGGEST`. The suggestion will then be displayed below the editing space and in the sidebar (in case of multiple suggestions, the most recent suggestion will be displayed).

> ![Sidebar after suggestion](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/sidebar_suggest.png "Pontoon’s sidebar before and after a suggestion is submitted")

Author: Technically, I guess we could use [this approach](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19331362/using-an-image-caption-in-markdown-jekyll), but I wonder if it's necessary.

> ![Sidebar after suggestion](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/sidebar_suggest.png "Pontoon’s sidebar before and after a suggestion is submitted")

Reviewer: I'd recommend using one screenshot with the same source string with the translation taken from the screenshot above it

Note that a suggested translation exists only in the Pontoon database, not in the repository or translation memories.

#### Manually switch to suggestion mode

> Even if the user has permissions to add translations directly, submitting suggestions to be reviewed by another person helps ensure quality. To manually switch to *Suggestion Mode*, click the settings icon in the lower-left side of the editing space and select `Make Suggestions`. The `SUGGEST` button will be displayed in the lower-right side of the editing space, replacing the green `SAVE` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is best practice to submit suggestions for review by another person to ensure translation quality. Some users with elevated permissions may have their editor set to submit translations directly instead of submitting suggestions for review. To manually switch to *Suggestion Mode*, click the settings icon in the lower-left side of the editing space and select `Make Suggestions`. The `SUGGEST` button will be displayed in the lower-right side of the editing space, replacing the green `SAVE` button.
```
Suggestion to make the sentence fit a bit better considering the ability to translate directly is introduced later in this document.

## Performing batch actions on strings

Mass actions can be performed on multiple strings at once by clicking on the square to the left of any string in the sidebar. When clicked, the square will show a checkmark and the editing space will show the mass action panel. Note that mass actions are only available to users with [translator permissions](users.md#user-roles).

![Mass action window](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/batch_actions.png)

To select a range of strings, select the first one and hold `SHIFT`, then select the last one. To select all strings, click `SELECT ALL` on the top-right of the mass action panel. The number of selected strings will appear on the top-left, next to the Exit icon.

To return back to the default editing space, click the Exit icon on the top-right of the mass action panel.

In the `REVIEW TRANSLATIONS` section, the user can approve or reject suggestions for all selected strings. Upon clicking `APPROVE ALL` or `REMOVE ALL SUGGESTIONS`, the label of the button will be replaced with the number of affected translations.
Note that `APPROVE ALL` accepts the latest suggestion, but doesn’t reject other suggestions if available.

> In the `REPLACE IN TRANSLATIONS` section, the user can input the text to search for, and the text to replace it with. This is a basic find and replace feature that will work only on the selected strings.

Author: Didn't even realize that text changed 🤦🏼

> In the `FIND & REPLACE IN TRANSLATIONS` section, the user can input the text to search for, and the text to replace it with. This is a basic find and replace feature that will work only on the selected strings.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Do we need _the_ in "input the text" and "and the text"?

Author: I think so. The alternative would be to use `and its replacement`, but it's less clear than the current text.

Examples include exceeding the maximum string length, incorrect syntax, etc. Errors are denoted with a circled X with red background.

![Internal check: error](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/check_error.png "Example of error")

### Warnings

Warnings are displayed when potential issues are detected in the string, but it’s not certain that they will create problems in products (unlike errors). For that reason, warnings can be bypassed by localizers, allowing them to save a translation anyway.

Examples include missing punctuation, differences in number of sentences and capitalization, etc. Warnings are denoted with a circled X with gray background.

![Internal check: warning](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/check_warning.png "Example of warning")

Certain types of checks (reported by the Translate Toolkit library) may result in many false positives. For this reason, they can be [completely disabled](users.md#user-settings).

## Performing batch actions on strings

> Mass actions can be performed on multiple strings at once at once by clicking on the square to the left of any string in the sidebar. When clicked, the square will show a checkmark and the editing space will show the mass action panel. Note that mass actions are only available to users with [translator rights](users.md#user-roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mass actions can be performed on multiple strings at once by clicking on the square to the left of any string in the sidebar. When clicked, the square will show a checkmark and the editing space will show the mass action panel. Note that mass actions are only available to users with [translator rights](users.md#user-roles).
```

### Errors

Errors cover issues that would cause the string to be ignored, for example removed from Firefox builds. For this reason, errors cannot be bypassed by localizers - the button to submit a translation is removed and the error needs to be fixed before the translation can be saved.

Examples include exceeding the maximum string length, incorrect Fluent syntax, etc. Errors are denoted with a circled X with red background.

![Internal check: error](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/check_error.png "Example of error")

> Errors are detected using the [compare-locales library](https://pypi.org/project/compare-locales/) and Pontoon’s internal checks.

Author: On second thoughts, let me remove it.

### Warnings

Warnings, unlike errors, are displayed when potential issues are detected in the string, but there’s a risk they might be false positives. For that reason, warnings can be bypassed by localizers, allowing them to save a translation anyway.

Examples include missing punctuation, differences in number of sentences and capitalization, etc. Warnings are denoted a circled X with gray background.

![Internal check: warning](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/check_warning.png "Example of warning")

Warnings are detected using the [compare-locales library](https://pypi.org/project/compare-locales/) and [Translate Toolkit libraries](http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/).

Note: since Translate Toolkit checks may result in many false positives, they can be [completely disabled](users.md#user-settings).

### Performing batch actions on strings

It’s possible to perform mass actions on batches of strings by clicking on the square to the left of any string in the sidebar. When clicked, the square will show a checkmark and the editing space will show the mass action window.

> ![Mass action window](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/batch_actions.png)

Reviewer: As I'm going through this pass it does indeed seem like its out of date. 
Left sidebar styling differs from how it appears on Pontoon today, and the String Selected / Select All locations are now switched,

Note that mass actions are only available to users with [translator rights](users.md#user-roles).

## Downloading and uploading translations

Pontoon provides the ability to download and upload translations, including terminology and translation memories. To access these features, click on the user icon in the top-right section of Pontoon. Note that the user must be in the translation workspace for the download/upload options to be displayed in the dropdown menu.

![Profile dropdown menu](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/profile_menu.png)

Anyone can download terminology (`.tbx`), translation memory (`.tmx`) and translations, while only translators can upload translations. When downloading translations:
* The resource currently selected is downloaded in its original format, it’s not converted in any way.
* If the project contains multiple files, a ZIP of all files is downloaded. If the project contains more than 10 files, only the file currently translated will be downloaded.

When uploading translations to Pontoon:

> * Existing strings with matching translations will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Translations matching the ones in Pontoon will be ignored.

(move that item to the bottom of the list)

> * New strings and new translations will be imported and attributed to the user uploading the file.

Reviewer 2: Translations different from the ones in Pontoon will be imported and attributed to the user uploading the file.

## Downloading and uploading translations

> Pontoon provides the ability to download and upload translations, including [terminology](glossary.md#terminology) and [translation memories](glossary.md#translation-memory. To access these features, click on the profile icon in the top-right corner of any page. Note that the user must be in the translation workspace for the download/upload options to be displayed in the dropdown menu.

Author: Fixed broken link to TM

![Profile dropdown menu](../../assets/images/pontoon/translate/profile_menu.png)

> Anyone can download terminology (`.tbx`), translation memory (`.tmx`) and translations, while only user with translator permissions can upload translations. When downloading translations:

Author: Fixed this (user -> users)
